README.md, before:

Tingwei Adeck
October 15, 2023

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# normfluodbf <img src="man/figures/logo.png" align="right" width="180"/>

[![GitHub](https://badgen.net/badge/icon/github?icon=github&label)](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf)
[![Demandez moi n'importe quoi
!](https://img.shields.io/badge/Demandez%20moi-n'%20importe%20quoi-1abc9c.svg)](mailto:awesome.tingwei@outlook.com)
[![Ask Me Anything
!](https://img.shields.io/badge/Ask%20me-anything-1abc9c.svg)](mailto:awesome.tingwei@outlook.com)
[![made-with-R](https://img.shields.io/badge/Made%20with-Rstudio-1f425f.svg)](https://www.rstudio.com/categories/rstudio-ide/)
[![Project
status](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/concept.svg)](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf/commits)
[![Project
Status](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/active.svg)](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf/commits)
[![Project
Status](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/wip.svg)](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf_ShinyApp/graphs/contributors)
[![lifecycle](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-maturing-blue.svg)](https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/stages.html)
[![PRs
Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](http://makeapullrequest.com)
[![saythanks](https://img.shields.io/badge/say-thanks-ff69b4.svg)](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf)
[![THANK
YOU](https://img.shields.io/badge/THANK-YOU-ff69b4.svg)](mailto:awesome.tingwei@outlook.com)
[![test-coverage](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf/actions/workflows/test-coverage.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf/actions/workflows/test-coverage.yaml)
[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
[![pages-build-deployment](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf/actions/workflows/pages/pages-build-deployment/badge.svg)](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf/actions/workflows/pages/pages-build-deployment)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/badge/MIT-License?label=license)](https://mit-license.org/)
[![Maintenance](https://img.shields.io/badge/Maintained%3F-yes-green.svg)](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf/graphs/commit-activity)
[![CRAN
status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/normfluodbf)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=normfluodbf)
[![](http://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/grand-total/normfluodbf?color=yellow)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=normfluodbf)
[![](http://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/last-month/normfluodbf?color=green)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=normfluodbf)
[![](http://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/last-week/normfluodbf?color=yellow)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=normfluodbf)
[![Awesome
Badges](https://img.shields.io/badge/badges-awesome-green.svg)](https://github.com/Naereen/badges)

The goal of
[`{normfluodbf}`](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf) is to
normalize fluorescence data obtained from liposome flux assay
experiments (the package can be extended to other experimental data from
similar instruments but this must be done at the users’ discretion) via
the FLUOstar micro plate reader (usually a 96-well micropplate). The
package now consists of three functions (norm_tidy_dbf, normfluordbf &
normfluodat) capable of normalizing ‘.dbf’ or ‘.dat’ files that require
cleaning and normalization using
[`{normfluodbf}`](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf). The
cleansed data can then be used for insightful data analysis and
visualization of results which can then be useful in the public
dissemination of scientific knowledge. This package falls in line with
principles of the inventor that focuses on public dissemination of
scientific knowledge and making it accessible to people of varying
backgrounds.

# Experimental setup-Standard

| Sample_Type (TNP) | 96  | 1         | 2         | 3         | 4         | 5         | 6         | 7         | 8         | 9         | 10        | 11        | 12        |
|:------------------|:----|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|
| Test              | A   | X1        | X2        | X3        | X4        | X5        | X6        | X7        | X8        | X9        | X10       | X11       | X12       |
| Negative          | B   | X13       | X14       | X15       | X16       | X17       | X18       | X19       | X20       | X21       | X22       | X23       | X24       |
| Positive          | C   | X25       | X26       | X27       | X28       | X29       | X30       | X31       | X32       | X33       | X34       | X35       | X36       |
|                   | D   |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |
|                   | E   |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |
|                   | F   |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |
|                   | G   |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |
|                   | H   |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |
| Concentration     |     | 2 $\mu$ M | 2 $\mu$ M | 2 $\mu$ M | 3 $\mu$ M | 3 $\mu$ M | 3 $\mu$ M | 4 $\mu$ M | 4 $\mu$ M | 4 $\mu$ M | 5 $\mu$ M | 5 $\mu$ M | 5 $\mu$ M |

<figure>
<img src="original_exp_setup.png" alt="Standard Experimental Setup" />
<figcaption aria-hidden="true">Standard Experimental Setup</figcaption>
</figure>

- The above image is the standard setup for experiments using the 96
  well plate. My case was specific to liposome flux assays (LFAs) but
  the assumption is that most experimental setups should follow the
  design above.

- Instances where the standard procedure is followed entails that the
  researcher can benefit from tracking the data in a single column after
  cleanup which will be illustrated.

| Sample_Type | Cycle_No | Machine_data_verbose | machine_data_numeric |
|:------------|:---------|:---------------------|:---------------------|
| Test        | 1        | A1                   | 1                    |
| Negative    | 1        | B1                   | 2                    |
| Positive    | 1        | C1                   | 3                    |
| Test        | 2        | A1                   | 4                    |
| Negative    | 2        | B1                   | 5                    |
| Positive    | 2        | C1                   | 6                    |
| Test        | 40       | A1                   | …118                 |
| Negative    | 40       | B1                   | …119                 |
| Positive    | 40       | C1                   | …120                 |

- For all three samples, the data derived from the instrument comprises
  of 120 tuples (rows), and this can be plotted as a single comlumn vs
  cycle number (1:n), were n = number of cycles, in this case 40 cycles.
  The machine (is dumb) and reads this sequentially so the column has
  120 tuples or rows as shown above.

- The final product in the standard procedure is shown below and the
  package update for dat files provides a normalized version of this
  data as the final output.

| A1 (Test) | B1 (Negative) | C1 (Positive) | Cycle_No |
|:----------|:--------------|:--------------|:---------|
| A1        | B1            | C1            | 1        |
| A1        | B1            | C1            | 2        |
| A1        | B1            | C1            | 3        |
| A1        | B1            | C1            | 4        |
| A1        | B1            | C1            | 5        |
| A1        | B1            | C1            | 6        |
| A1        | B1            | C1            | …38      |
| A1        | B1            | C1            | …39      |
| A1        | B1            | C1            | …40      |

- Violation of the standard setup does not violate this algorithm but it
  becomes the researchers responsibility to keep track of any deviations
  to avoid wrong experimental results.

# Experimental setup-Non-Standard

| Sample_Type   | 96  | Test      | Negative  | Positive  | 4         | 5         | 6         | 7         | 8         | 9         | 10        | 11        | 12        |
|:--------------|:----|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|
|               | A   | X1        | X2        | X3        | X4        | X5        | X6        | X7        | X8        | X9        | X10       | X11       | X12       |
|               | B   | X13       | X14       | X15       | X16       | X17       | X18       | X19       | X20       | X21       | X22       | X23       | X24       |
|               | C   | X25       | X26       | X27       | X28       | X29       | X30       | X31       | X32       | X33       | X34       | X35       | X36       |
|               | D   |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |
|               | E   |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |
|               | F   |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |
|               | G   |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |
|               | H   |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |
| Concentration |     | 2 $\mu$ M | 2 $\mu$ M | 2 $\mu$ M | 3 $\mu$ M | 3 $\mu$ M | 3 $\mu$ M | 4 $\mu$ M | 4 $\mu$ M | 4 $\mu$ M | 5 $\mu$ M | 5 $\mu$ M | 5 $\mu$ M |

- The above image is the non-standard setup for experiments using the 96
  well plate. This case was specific to liposome flux assays (LFAs) but
  the assumption is that most experimental setups should follow the
  standard setup originally discussed.

- Fun fact, as a young student myself in a relatively toxic lab (better
  than other labs but still not healthy for the average person), I did
  not use the standard experimental setup in my first experiments and
  this entailed that the data could not eaily be analyzed.

- This package update benefits the lab weirdo most but this is not a “Go
  ahead and be weird” card but rather an approach that accounts for the
  weakest link. The Advice is “USE THE STANDARD EXPERIMENTAL SETUP”.

- The machine (is dumb) and reads this sequentially so the column has
  120 tuples or rows as shown below. However, NOTICE in this case that
  the researcher cannot get away with just plotting a 120 tuple column
  because the same sample type is represented per column as seen below.

- Notice that unlike the standard case, a researcher cannot plot the 120
  tuples column(s) and get final results because the data does not
  follow the standard experimental setup. These type of researchers
  benefit the most from this package. The machine scans through columns
  and so in the standard case, the machine accounted for all 3 sample
  types per plate column scanned BUT in the non-standard setup the
  machine accounts for a single sample type per plate column scanned.

| Sample_Type | Cycle_No | Machine_data_verbose | machine_data_numeric |
|:------------|:---------|:---------------------|:---------------------|
| Test-1      | 1        | A1                   | 1                    |
| Test-2      | 1        | B1                   | 2                    |
| Test-3      | 1        | C1                   | 3                    |
| Test-1      | 2        | A1                   | 4                    |
| Test-2      | 2        | B1                   | 5                    |
| Test-3      | 2        | C1                   | 6                    |
| Test-1      | 40       | A1                   | …118                 |
| Test-2      | 40       | B1                   | …119                 |
| Test-3      | 40       | C1                   | …120                 |

| A1 (Test-1) | B1 (Test-2) | C1 (Test-3) | Cycle_No |
|:------------|:------------|:------------|:---------|
| A1          | B1          | C1          | 1        |
| A1          | B1          | C1          | 2        |
| A1          | B1          | C1          | 3        |
| A1          | B1          | C1          | 4        |
| A1          | B1          | C1          | 5        |
| A1          | B1          | C1          | 6        |
| A1          | B1          | C1          | …38      |
| A1          | B1          | C1          | …39      |
| A1          | B1          | C1          | …40      |

- The data provided by the package update is a normalized version of the
  data below. This is where researchers have more control of the data
  since they deviated from the standard procedure. Also ‘norm_tidy_dbf’
  also provides the same level of control that this update for dat files
  provides.

- Violation of the standard setup benefits from the final product of
  this package although several functions will be provided to deal with
  the data at the level of control needed by the researcher and how
  savvy they are with these types of experiments.

## Extreme Non-Standard Cases

- These cases really have no issue except they present a problem when
  trying to label columns correctly and by correctly one just means
  matching column names to their locations on the plate.

- A fine little solution to that is provoking some user input or thought
  process (not as punishement) but more like you get to put some work in
  if you have an extreme case (especially one you designed).

| Sample_Type (TNP) | 96  | 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   | 6   | 7   | 8   | 9   | 10  | 11  | 12  |
|:------------------|:----|:----|:----|:----|:----|:----|:----|:----|:----|:----|:----|:----|:----|
| Test              | A   | X1  |     | X3  | X4  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| Negative          | B   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| Positive          | C   | X25 |     |     | X28 | X29 |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|                   | D   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|                   | E   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|                   | F   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|                   | G   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|                   | H   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |

- As can be seen from the table above, the naming of columns there from
  a programming point presents some challenges and so the user must know
  exactly what they were trying to achieve or correct if they performed
  such an experiment. The user might have run out of room and made some
  mistakes or they might just be nervous (bad health nervous) as the
  inventor was when he first tried these experiments. Whatever can lead
  to this scenario entails the user will be prompted to enter some
  information in R, in order to arrive at the right column labels.

- This means the user can either enter the labels directly using the
  user_specific_labels parameter or the user can input the rows_used and
  cols_used while keeping the user_specific_labels param blank (in
  general terms with no worry of specifying columns yet); the program
  will then prompt the user to choose and type column labels based on
  their cols_used and rows_used input; alternatively the user can input
  user_specific_labels as a character vector and that should match the
  number of samples in the plate or on file (digitally) and that will
  then create a column names that will be applied to the cleaned data
  frame.

- NOTE: this is for extreme extreme cases (when samples are placed in
  the plate out of sequence).

- Rough draft documentation so this will be a slow burn as I read
  through, the aim is not to loose ideas as I take the project to
  maturity. These are the final stages so I am soon progressing to other
  projects.

## QC Implemented

- QC well implemented

## Potential Loopholes

- Giving the researcher some work when the design is super wonky. I
  woould love to think of plate designs but I know I tempered with mine
  so unsure how that can be coded.

- The project has reached maturity and so is behind the scenes closed.
  The documentation will be slow burn to avoid errors and to take in all
  that has been learnt and hopefully the update sent to CRAN in a couple
  of weeks or even less. Hope the inventor can stick to the plan of 1
  document a day and stay PATIENT in that process.

## Functions

### Subordinate Functions

- remove_na_seqdat() OR clean_evendat()
- remove_na_nonseqdat() OR clean_odddat()
- comma_cleaner()
- resample_dat() or resample_datv2()
- min_max_norm()
- dat_col_names()
- unique_identifier()

### Parent Function

- normfluodat()

### Visualizer

- gg_plot_triplets()

## ↓ Installation

The development version of
[`{normfluodbf}`](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf) can be
installed as illustrated below:

``` r
install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf")
pak::pak("AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf")

#Once the package makes CRAN
install.packages("normfluodbf")
library(normfluodbf)
```

## Example

This is a basic example which illustrates package usage:

``` r
library(normfluodbf)
liposomes_214 <- system.file("extdata", "liposomes_214.dbf", package = "normfluodbf")
normalized_data <- normfluodbf(liposomes_214)
```

## R packages Imported

- tidyr
- data.table
- foreign
- tibble
- dplyr

Visit
[`{my page}`](https://alphaprime7.github.io/normfluodbf/articles/normfluodbf.html)
for details on the concept behind the project.

# References

(Dowle and Srinivasan 2023) (R Core Team 2022) (Wickham et al. 2019)

<div id="refs" class="references csl-bib-body hanging-indent">

<div id="ref-datatable" class="csl-entry">

Dowle, Matt, and Arun Srinivasan. 2023.
*<span class="nocase">data.table</span>: Extension of
“<span class="nocase">data.frame</span>”*.
<https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=data.table>.

</div>

<div id="ref-foreign" class="csl-entry">

R Core Team. 2022. *<span class="nocase">foreign</span>: Read Data
Stored by “Minitab,” “S,” “SAS,” “SPSS,” “Stata,” “Systat,” “Weka,”
“<span class="nocase">dBase</span>,” ...*
<https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=foreign>.

</div>

<div id="ref-tidyverse" class="csl-entry">

Wickham, Hadley, Mara Averick, Jennifer Bryan, Winston Chang, Lucy
D’Agostino McGowan, Romain François, Garrett Grolemund, et al. 2019.
“Welcome to the <span class="nocase">tidyverse</span>.” *Journal of Open
Source Software* 4 (43): 1686. <https://doi.org/10.21105/joss.01686>.

</div>

</div>

Commit message:

up-some fun now with emojifont-back to the cloud and webscraping learning tomorrow

README.md, after:

Tingwei Adeck
October 15, 2023

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# normfluodbf <img src="man/figures/logo.png" align="right" width="180"/>

[![GitHub](https://badgen.net/badge/icon/github?icon=github&label)](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf)
[![Demandez moi n'importe quoi
!](https://img.shields.io/badge/Demandez%20moi-n'%20importe%20quoi-1abc9c.svg)](mailto:awesome.tingwei@outlook.com)
[![Ask Me Anything
!](https://img.shields.io/badge/Ask%20me-anything-1abc9c.svg)](mailto:awesome.tingwei@outlook.com)
[![made-with-R](https://img.shields.io/badge/Made%20with-Rstudio-1f425f.svg)](https://www.rstudio.com/categories/rstudio-ide/)
[![Project
status](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/concept.svg)](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf/commits)
[![Project
Status](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/active.svg)](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf/commits)
[![Project
Status](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/wip.svg)](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf_ShinyApp/graphs/contributors)
[![lifecycle](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-maturing-blue.svg)](https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/stages.html)
[![PRs
Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](http://makeapullrequest.com)
[![saythanks](https://img.shields.io/badge/say-thanks-ff69b4.svg)](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf)
[![THANK
YOU](https://img.shields.io/badge/THANK-YOU-ff69b4.svg)](mailto:awesome.tingwei@outlook.com)
[![test-coverage](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf/actions/workflows/test-coverage.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf/actions/workflows/test-coverage.yaml)
[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
[![pages-build-deployment](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf/actions/workflows/pages/pages-build-deployment/badge.svg)](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf/actions/workflows/pages/pages-build-deployment)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/badge/MIT-License?label=license)](https://mit-license.org/)
[![Maintenance](https://img.shields.io/badge/Maintained%3F-yes-green.svg)](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf/graphs/commit-activity)
[![CRAN
status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/normfluodbf)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=normfluodbf)
[![](http://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/grand-total/normfluodbf?color=yellow)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=normfluodbf)
[![](http://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/last-month/normfluodbf?color=green)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=normfluodbf)
[![](http://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/last-week/normfluodbf?color=yellow)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=normfluodbf)
[![Awesome
Badges](https://img.shields.io/badge/badges-awesome-green.svg)](https://github.com/Naereen/badges)

The goal of
[`{normfluodbf}`](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf) is to
normalize fluorescence data obtained from liposome flux assay
experiments (the package can be extended to other experimental data from
similar instruments but this must be done at the users’ discretion) via
the FLUOstar micro plate reader (usually a 96-well micropplate). The
package now consists of three functions (norm_tidy_dbf, normfluordbf &
normfluodat) capable of normalizing ‘.dbf’ or ‘.dat’ files that require
cleaning and normalization using
[`{normfluodbf}`](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf). The
cleansed data can then be used for insightful data analysis and
visualization of results which can then be useful in the public
dissemination of scientific knowledge. This package falls in line with
principles of the inventor that focuses on public dissemination of
scientific knowledge and making it accessible to people of varying
backgrounds.

# Experimental setup-Standard

| Sample_Type (TNP) | 96  | 1         | 2         | 3         | 4         | 5         | 6         | 7         | 8         | 9         | 10        | 11        | 12        |
|:------------------|:----|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|
| Test              | A   | X1        | X2        | X3        | X4        | X5        | X6        | X7        | X8        | X9        | X10       | X11       | X12       |
| Negative          | B   | X13       | X14       | X15       | X16       | X17       | X18       | X19       | X20       | X21       | X22       | X23       | X24       |
| Positive          | C   | X25       | X26       | X27       | X28       | X29       | X30       | X31       | X32       | X33       | X34       | X35       | X36       |
|                   | D   |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |
|                   | E   |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |
|                   | F   |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |
|                   | G   |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |
|                   | H   |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |
| Concentration     |     | 2 $\mu$ M | 2 $\mu$ M | 2 $\mu$ M | 3 $\mu$ M | 3 $\mu$ M | 3 $\mu$ M | 4 $\mu$ M | 4 $\mu$ M | 4 $\mu$ M | 5 $\mu$ M | 5 $\mu$ M | 5 $\mu$ M |

<figure>
<img src="original_exp_setup.png" alt="Standard Experimental Setup" />
<figcaption aria-hidden="true">Standard Experimental Setup</figcaption>
</figure>

- The above image is the standard setup for experiments using the 96
  well plate. My case was specific to liposome flux assays (LFAs) but
  the assumption is that most experimental setups should follow the
  design above.

- Instances where the standard procedure is followed entails that the
  researcher can benefit from tracking the data in a single column after
  cleanup which will be illustrated.

| Sample_Type | Cycle_No | Machine_data_verbose | machine_data_numeric |
|:------------|:---------|:---------------------|:---------------------|
| Test        | 1        | A1                   | 1                    |
| Negative    | 1        | B1                   | 2                    |
| Positive    | 1        | C1                   | 3                    |
| Test        | 2        | A1                   | 4                    |
| Negative    | 2        | B1                   | 5                    |
| Positive    | 2        | C1                   | 6                    |
| Test        | 40       | A1                   | …118                 |
| Negative    | 40       | B1                   | …119                 |
| Positive    | 40       | C1                   | …120                 |

- For all three samples, the data derived from the instrument comprises
  of 120 tuples (rows), and this can be plotted as a single comlumn vs
  cycle number (1:n), were n = number of cycles, in this case 40 cycles.
  The machine (is dumb) and reads this sequentially so the column has
  120 tuples or rows as shown above.

- The final product in the standard procedure is shown below and the
  package update for dat files provides a normalized version of this
  data as the final output.

| A1 (Test) | B1 (Negative) | C1 (Positive) | Cycle_No |
|:----------|:--------------|:--------------|:---------|
| A1        | B1            | C1            | 1        |
| A1        | B1            | C1            | 2        |
| A1        | B1            | C1            | 3        |
| A1        | B1            | C1            | 4        |
| A1        | B1            | C1            | 5        |
| A1        | B1            | C1            | 6        |
| A1        | B1            | C1            | …38      |
| A1        | B1            | C1            | …39      |
| A1        | B1            | C1            | …40      |

- Violation of the standard setup does not violate this algorithm but it
  becomes the researchers responsibility to keep track of any deviations
  to avoid wrong experimental results.

# Experimental setup-Non-Standard

| Sample_Type   | 96  | Test      | Negative  | Positive  | 4         | 5         | 6         | 7         | 8         | 9         | 10        | 11        | 12        |
|:--------------|:----|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|:----------|
|               | A   | X1        | X2        | X3        | X4        | X5        | X6        | X7        | X8        | X9        | X10       | X11       | X12       |
|               | B   | X13       | X14       | X15       | X16       | X17       | X18       | X19       | X20       | X21       | X22       | X23       | X24       |
|               | C   | X25       | X26       | X27       | X28       | X29       | X30       | X31       | X32       | X33       | X34       | X35       | X36       |
|               | D   |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |
|               | E   |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |
|               | F   |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |
|               | G   |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |
|               | H   |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |           |
| Concentration |     | 2 $\mu$ M | 2 $\mu$ M | 2 $\mu$ M | 3 $\mu$ M | 3 $\mu$ M | 3 $\mu$ M | 4 $\mu$ M | 4 $\mu$ M | 4 $\mu$ M | 5 $\mu$ M | 5 $\mu$ M | 5 $\mu$ M |

- The above image is the non-standard setup for experiments using the 96
  well plate. This case was specific to liposome flux assays (LFAs) but
  the assumption is that most experimental setups should follow the
  standard setup originally discussed.

- Fun fact, as a young student myself in a relatively toxic lab (better
  than other labs but still not healthy for the average person), I did
  not use the standard experimental setup in my first experiments and
  this entailed that the data could not eaily be analyzed.

- This package update benefits the lab weirdo most but this is not a “Go
  ahead and be weird” card but rather an approach that accounts for the
  weakest link. The Advice is “USE THE STANDARD EXPERIMENTAL SETUP”.

- The machine (is dumb) and reads this sequentially so the column has
  120 tuples or rows as shown below. However, NOTICE in this case that
  the researcher cannot get away with just plotting a 120 tuple column
  because the same sample type is represented per column as seen below.

- Notice that unlike the standard case, a researcher cannot plot the 120
  tuples column(s) and get final results because the data does not
  follow the standard experimental setup. These type of researchers
  benefit the most from this package. The machine scans through columns
  and so in the standard case, the machine accounted for all 3 sample
  types per plate column scanned BUT in the non-standard setup the
  machine accounts for a single sample type per plate column scanned.

| Sample_Type | Cycle_No | Machine_data_verbose | machine_data_numeric |
|:------------|:---------|:---------------------|:---------------------|
| Test-1      | 1        | A1                   | 1                    |
| Test-2      | 1        | B1                   | 2                    |
| Test-3      | 1        | C1                   | 3                    |
| Test-1      | 2        | A1                   | 4                    |
| Test-2      | 2        | B1                   | 5                    |
| Test-3      | 2        | C1                   | 6                    |
| Test-1      | 40       | A1                   | …118                 |
| Test-2      | 40       | B1                   | …119                 |
| Test-3      | 40       | C1                   | …120                 |

| A1 (Test-1) | B1 (Test-2) | C1 (Test-3) | Cycle_No |
|:------------|:------------|:------------|:---------|
| A1          | B1          | C1          | 1        |
| A1          | B1          | C1          | 2        |
| A1          | B1          | C1          | 3        |
| A1          | B1          | C1          | 4        |
| A1          | B1          | C1          | 5        |
| A1          | B1          | C1          | 6        |
| A1          | B1          | C1          | …38      |
| A1          | B1          | C1          | …39      |
| A1          | B1          | C1          | …40      |

- The data provided by the package update is a normalized version of the
  data below. This is where researchers have more control of the data
  since they deviated from the standard procedure. Also ‘norm_tidy_dbf’
  also provides the same level of control that this update for dat files
  provides.

- Violation of the standard setup benefits from the final product of
  this package although several functions will be provided to deal with
  the data at the level of control needed by the researcher and how
  savvy they are with these types of experiments.

## Extreme Non-Standard Cases

- These cases really have no issue except they present a problem when
  trying to label columns correctly and by correctly one just means
  matching column names to their locations on the plate.

- A fine little solution to that is provoking some user input or thought
  process (not as punishement) but more like you get to put some work in
  if you have an extreme case (especially one you designed).

| Sample_Type (TNP) | 96  | 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   | 6   | 7   | 8   | 9   | 10  | 11  | 12  |
|:------------------|:----|:----|:----|:----|:----|:----|:----|:----|:----|:----|:----|:----|:----|
| Test              | A   | X1  |     | X3  | X4  |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| Negative          | B   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| Positive          | C   | X25 |     |     | X28 | X29 |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|                   | D   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|                   | E   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|                   | F   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|                   | G   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
|                   | H   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |

- As can be seen from the table above, the naming of columns there from
  a programming point presents some challenges and so the user must know
  exactly what they were trying to achieve or correct if they performed
  such an experiment. The user might have run out of room and made some
  mistakes or they might just be nervous (bad health nervous) as the
  inventor was when he first tried these experiments. Whatever can lead
  to this scenario entails the user will be prompted to enter some
  information in R, in order to arrive at the right column labels.

- This means the user can either enter the labels directly using the
  user_specific_labels parameter or the user can input the rows_used and
  cols_used while keeping the user_specific_labels param blank (in
  general terms with no worry of specifying columns yet); the program
  will then prompt the user to choose and type column labels based on
  their cols_used and rows_used input; alternatively the user can input
  user_specific_labels as a character vector and that should match the
  number of samples in the plate or on file (digitally) and that will
  then create a column names that will be applied to the cleaned data
  frame.

- NOTE: this is for extreme extreme cases (when samples are placed in
  the plate out of sequence).

- Rough draft documentation so this will be a slow burn as I read
  through, the aim is not to loose ideas as I take the project to
  maturity. These are the final stages so I am soon progressing to other
  projects.

## QC Implemented

- QC well implemented (with some fun emojis from emojifont)

## Potential Loopholes

- Giving the researcher some work when the design is super wonky. I
  woould love to think of plate designs but I know I tempered with mine
  so unsure how that can be coded.

- The project has reached maturity and so is behind the scenes closed.
  The documentation will be slow burn to avoid errors and to take in all
  that has been learnt and hopefully the update sent to CRAN in a couple
  of weeks or even less. Hope the inventor can stick to the plan of 1
  document a day and stay PATIENT in that process.

## Functions

### Subordinate Functions

- remove_na_seqdat() OR clean_evendat()
- remove_na_nonseqdat() OR clean_odddat()
- comma_cleaner()
- resample_dat() or resample_datv2()
- min_max_norm()
- dat_col_names()
- unique_identifier()

### Parent Function

- normfluodat()

### Visualizer

- gg_plot_triplets()

## ↓ Installation

The development version of
[`{normfluodbf}`](https://github.com/AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf) can be
installed as illustrated below:

``` r
install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf")
pak::pak("AlphaPrime7/normfluodbf")

#Once the package makes CRAN
install.packages("normfluodbf")
library(normfluodbf)
```

## Example

This is a basic example which illustrates package usage:

``` r
library(normfluodbf)
liposomes_214 <- system.file("extdata", "liposomes_214.dbf", package = "normfluodbf")
normalized_data <- normfluodbf(liposomes_214)
```

## R packages Imported

- tidyr
- data.table
- foreign
- tibble
- dplyr

Visit
[`{my page}`](https://alphaprime7.github.io/normfluodbf/articles/normfluodbf.html)
for details on the concept behind the project.

# References

(Dowle and Srinivasan 2023) (R Core Team 2022) (Wickham et al. 2019)

<div id="refs" class="references csl-bib-body hanging-indent">

<div id="ref-datatable" class="csl-entry">

Dowle, Matt, and Arun Srinivasan. 2023.
*<span class="nocase">data.table</span>: Extension of
“<span class="nocase">data.frame</span>”*.
<https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=data.table>.

</div>

<div id="ref-foreign" class="csl-entry">

R Core Team. 2022. *<span class="nocase">foreign</span>: Read Data
Stored by “Minitab,” “S,” “SAS,” “SPSS,” “Stata,” “Systat,” “Weka,”
“<span class="nocase">dBase</span>,” ...*
<https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=foreign>.

</div>

<div id="ref-tidyverse" class="csl-entry">

Wickham, Hadley, Mara Averick, Jennifer Bryan, Winston Chang, Lucy
D’Agostino McGowan, Romain François, Garrett Grolemund, et al. 2019.
“Welcome to the <span class="nocase">tidyverse</span>.” *Journal of Open
Source Software* 4 (43): 1686. <https://doi.org/10.21105/joss.01686>.

</div>

</div>
